Docs for the 0.22 release (#2307)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/06.enterprise/03.auth/sso/ldap.md

---
title: LDAP
icon: /docs/icons/tutorial.svg
editions: ["EE"]

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version: "0.22.0"
---
```

> Enable LDAP authentication in Kestra to improve security and streamline user access using existing LDAP credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable LDAP authentication in Kestra to streamline authentication using existing LDAP credentials.
```

## What is LDAP

Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) is a protocol that makes it possible for applications to quickly query user information. Organization store usernames, passwords, email addresses, and other static data within directories. LDAP is an open, vendor-neutral application protocol for accessing and maintaining that data.

With Kestra, you can use an existing LDAP directory to authenticate users and sync them to groups with specific access permissions.

## Configuration

> LDAP is configured in the security context of your Kestra configuration file. Below is an example configuration that includes Kestra-specific properties on top of out of the box Micronaut configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LDAP is configured in the security context of your Kestra configuration file. Below is an example configuration with Kestra-specific properties on top of the Micronaut configuration.
```

For Kestra-specific configuration, `user-attributes` is the key property that links the attributes on the LDAP side to the attributes on the Kestra side. In this configuration, user attributes like First Name, Last Name, and Email are mapped between the two.

## LDAP users in Kestra

With LDAP configured, when a user logs into Kestra for the first time, their login attributes will be checked against the LDAP directory and a user will be created in Kestra. If Kestra finds an already existing matching account, then the user will be logged into Kestra with the LDAP account. 

If they are a part of any groups specified in the directory, those groups will be added to Kestra, and if the group already exists in Kestra, then they will be added automatically. Any user authenticated through LDAP, will show `LDAP` as their Authentication method in the **IAM - Users** tab in Kestra.

![ldap-1](/docs/enterprise/sso/ldap-1.png)

> Any updates to a user and their group access on the LDAP server will update in Kestra at the next synchronization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any updates to a user and their group access on the LDAP server will update in Kestra at the next synchronization (typically at the next login).
```

---
title: LDAP
icon: /docs/icons/tutorial.svg
editions: ["EE"]
version: "0.22.0"
---

Enable LDAP authentication in Kestra to streamline authentication using existing LDAP credentials.

## What is LDAP

> Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) is a protocol that makes it possible for applications to quickly query user information. Organization store usernames, passwords, email addresses, and other static data within directories. LDAP is an open, vendor-neutral application protocol for accessing and maintaining that data.

Author: ```suggestion
Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) allows applications to quickly query user information. Organizations store usernames, passwords, email addresses, and other static data within directories. LDAP is an open, vendor-neutral application protocol for accessing and maintaining that data.
```

With Kestra, you can use an existing LDAP directory to authenticate users and sync them to groups with specific access permissions.

## Configuration

LDAP is configured in the security context of your Kestra configuration file. Below is an example configuration with Kestra-specific properties on top of the Micronaut configuration.

```yaml
security:
  ldap:
    default:
      user-attributes:
        firstName: firstNameAttribute
        lastName: lastNameAttribute
        email: mailAttribute
      context:
        server: "ldap://localhost"
        manager-dn: "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org"
        manager-password: "LDAP_PASSWORD"
      search:
        base: "dc=example,dc=org"
        attributes:
          - "uid"
          - "firstNameAttribute"
          - "lastNameAttribute"
          - "mailAttribute"

>         groups:
>           enabled: true
>           base: "dc=example,dc=org"
>           filter: "{&(objectClass=posixGroup)(memberUid={0})}"
>           filter-attribute: uid

Reviewer: I think this should be the same level as `search`?

```suggestion
      groups:
        enabled: true
        base: "dc=example,dc=org"
        filter: "{&(objectClass=posixGroup)(memberUid={0})}"
        filter-attribute: uid
```

https://micronaut-projects.github.io/micronaut-security/4.11.3/guide/#ldap

```

[LDAP with Micronaut](https://micronaut-projects.github.io/micronaut-security/4.11.3/guide/#ldap) has `context`, `search`, and `groups` as basic configuration properties supported out of the box. They provide the connection context to the directory of users, user attributes to be linked to the Kestra instance, and filter information to sync the users' groups to Kestra based on your LDAP directory. 

For Kestra-specific configuration, `user-attributes` is the key property that links the attributes on the LDAP side to the attributes on the Kestra side. In this configuration, user attributes like First Name, Last Name, and Email are mapped between the two.

## LDAP users in Kestra

> With LDAP configured, when a user logs into Kestra for the first time, their login attributes will be checked against the LDAP directory and a user will be created in Kestra. If Kestra finds an already existing matching account, then the user will be logged into Kestra with the LDAP account. 

Author: ```suggestion
With LDAP configured, when a user logs into Kestra for the first time, their login attributes are checked against the LDAP directory, and a user is created in Kestra. If Kestra finds an already existing matching account, the user is logged into Kestra with the LDAP account. 
```

> If they are a part of any groups specified in the directory, those groups will be added to Kestra, and if the group already exists in Kestra, then they will be added automatically. Any user authenticated through LDAP, will show `LDAP` as their Authentication method in the **IAM - Users** tab in Kestra.

Author: ```suggestion
If they are a part of any groups specified in the directory, those groups will be added to Kestra. If the group already exists in Kestra, they will be automatically added. Any user authenticated through LDAP will show `LDAP` as their Authentication method in the **IAM - Users** tab in Kestra.
```

> If they are a part of any groups specified in the directory, those groups will be added to Kestra. If the group already exists in Kestra, they will be automatically added. If a user is added to a group after already logging into Kestra once, that user must logout and log back into Kestra as the LDAP server only syncs at the point of logging in. Any user authenticated through LDAP will show `LDAP` as their Authentication method in the **IAM - Users** tab in Kestra.

Author: ```suggestion
If they are a part of any groups specified in the directory, those groups will be added to Kestra. If the group already exists in Kestra, they will be automatically added. If a user is added to a group after already logging into Kestra once, that user must log out and back into Kestra, as the LDAP server only syncs at the point of logging in. Any user authenticated through LDAP will show `LDAP` as their Authentication method in the **IAM - Users** tab in Kestra.
```

![ldap-1](/docs/enterprise/sso/ldap-1.png)

Any updates to a user and their group access on the LDAP server will update in Kestra at the next synchronization (typically at the next login).

::alert{type="warning"}

> If a user is deleted from the LDAP server, then that user will lose access to Kestra at the next scheduled sync or whenever the user next attempts to log in.

Author: ```suggestion
If a user is deleted from the LDAP server, then that user will lose access to Kestra at the next scheduled sync or login attempt.
```
